README.md, before:

# (A Brief) Introduction to R

This tutorial was designed for Northwestern University Master of Science in Clinical Investigation (*<https://nucats.northwestern.edu/education-career-development/investigator-resources/msci>*) students to be given over two 1.5 hour sessions. It is presented in an R Markdown document and covers R basics including arithmetic functions, variable assignment, basic data types, importing and working with files in several formats, and very simple exploratory data analysis techniques. In addition to this tutorial, the students were given full access to Data Camp (*<http://www.datacamp.com>*) content to continue learning R and/or Python in a self-paced, online format.

## Getting Started

You will need R and are encouraged to download R Studio to use these exercises. 

### Prerequisites

1. Download and install R
	* Go to *<http://ftp.osuosl.org/pub/cran/>*
	* Pick the appropriate version for your computer
	*	* Macs: The most current version is ‘R-3.3.3.pkg’ (for Mavericks, Yosemite). If you have have ‘El Capitan’ or higher, pick ‘R-3.4.0.pkg’.
	*	* PC: Pick the base version
	* After download, install with default settings

2. Download and install R Studio:
	* Go to https://www.rstudio.com/products/rstudio/#Desktop
	* Click on “DOWNLOAD RSTUDIO DESKTOP”
	* Choose the appropriate version for your computer under "Installers for Supported Platforms"
	* After download, install with default settings

If you have trouble with the installation, there is a [video walkthrough](https://campus.datacamp.com/courses/working-with-the-rstudio-ide-part-1/orientation?ex=3) available through Data Camp.

3. Install the ['rmarkdown' package](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/rmarkdown/rmarkdown.pdf) if it is not already.

4. Install the ['knitr' package](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/knitr/knitr.pdf).

5. **For Macs**: For _knitr_ to function properly, you will need the [XQuartz](https://www.xquartz.org/) X Window System for OS X.

## References

See _Intro_to_R.Rmd_ for references

## Authors

**Matt Carson** - [Kaars](https://github.com/kaars)

## Acknowledgments

Thanks to Christina Maimone for help with student access to Data Camp.

Commit message:

added Data_Files folder and references for data set in .Rmd file, recompiled PDF

README.md, after:

# (A Brief) Introduction to R

This tutorial was designed for Northwestern University Master of Science in Clinical Investigation (*<https://nucats.northwestern.edu/education-career-development/investigator-resources/msci>*) students to be given over two 1.5 hour sessions. It is presented in an R Markdown document and covers R basics including arithmetic functions, variable assignment, basic data types, importing and working with files in several formats, and very simple exploratory data analysis techniques. In addition to this tutorial, the students were given full access to Data Camp (*<http://www.datacamp.com>*) content to continue learning R and/or Python in a self-paced, online format.

## Getting Started

You will need R and are encouraged to download R Studio to use these exercises. 

### Prerequisites

1. Download and install R
	* Go to *<http://ftp.osuosl.org/pub/cran/>*
	* Pick the appropriate version for your computer
	*	* Macs: The most current version is ‘R-3.3.3.pkg’ (for Mavericks, Yosemite). If you have have ‘El Capitan’ or higher, pick ‘R-3.4.0.pkg’.
	*	* PC: Pick the base version
	* After download, install with default settings

2. Download and install R Studio:
	* Go to https://www.rstudio.com/products/rstudio/#Desktop
	* Click on “DOWNLOAD RSTUDIO DESKTOP”
	* Choose the appropriate version for your computer under "Installers for Supported Platforms"
	* After download, install with default settings

If you have trouble with the installation, there is a [video walkthrough](https://campus.datacamp.com/courses/working-with-the-rstudio-ide-part-1/orientation?ex=3) available through Data Camp.

3. Install the ['rmarkdown' package](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/rmarkdown/rmarkdown.pdf) if it is not already.

4. Install the ['knitr' package](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/knitr/knitr.pdf).

5. **For Macs**: For _knitr_ to function properly, you will need the [XQuartz](https://www.xquartz.org/) X Window System for OS X.

6. Download the **'Data_Files'** folder and place it in the same folder as 'Intro_to_R.Rmd', or change the code within to the proper path.

## References

See _Intro_to_R.Rmd_ for references

## Authors

**Matt Carson** - [Kaars](https://github.com/kaars)

## Acknowledgments

Thanks to Christina Maimone for help with student access to Data Camp.
